hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about passing
a pointer to a function and about functions returning pointers.
So first of all let's discuss about
passing pointer to a function. So like passing a variable
to a function
We can also pass the address of a variable to
a function who we can say we can pass a
pointer to a function
So the function declaration for getting an integer variable address is
return type followed by function name followed by int *
within parenthesis
Here * indicates that function is getting an address of
a variable and not the value of variable
Now if we need to pass address of two integer
variables then the function declaration can be like this
So to understand this better let's consider this simple C
programme
We have the main function and a user defined function
setToZero
So as we know execution begins from the main function
and we are declaring an integer variable a and
initialising it to 10
Now we have a printf statement printing
"before calling the function a =" and printing the value of a
which will print 10 And then we are calling
the function by passing the address of a. So control goes
to function definition and as the parameter we have a
pointer which will store the address of a which
is 1024
Next we have *a equal to zero that is value at a
equal to zero
So at address 1024, value is set to zero
Now control returns to main function
And again we have a print statement which prints
"after calling the function a equal to" and prints the value of
a which is zero
So if we pass the address of a variable to
a function any changes on that variable will reflect in
actual value of variable
In our case the actual value of a is changed to 0 after
the execution of setToZero function. Now let us discuss
about functions returning pointers
So the syntax is return type * function name followed
by parameters within parenthesis and a semi colon
So here the * indicates that the function is returning
the address of a variable
For example suppose the function returns the address of an
integer variable
Then we have int * function name parameters and if
the function returns address of a character variable
Then we have char * function name and parameters.
Now let us see a very simple programme to understand this. So we
have the main function and a user defined function Get
so execution begins from the main function and we have
int * ptr= get() that
is we are calling function get and whatever the function returns
will be stored in ptr. So control goes to function
Get and we can see the return type is int*.
That is it returns and integer pointer or the address
of an integer variable. And here we are declaring
an integer variable i.
Suppose it is created at 5024 and initialising to 100
Next we have return &i that is address of i
which is 5024 will be returned to main function
and will be stored in ptr and the programme return
zero and it is completed successfully
So that's all and thank you for watching this video